何雅婷：「我媽說我爺爺跌倒，叫我去看他。」;爺爺&跌倒;Hé Yǎtíng: "My mom said that grandpa fell down, and asked me to visit him."

;
;;

何雅婷：「幸虧鄰居聽見狗一直叫，很快的過來幫忙，... 」;鄰居&狗;Hé Yǎtíng: "Fortunately, the neighbours heard the dog barking continuously, and quickly went over to help, ..."
何雅婷：「嗯，奶奶過世以後，爺爺就一個人住。」;奶奶&過世;Hé Yǎtíng: "Uh-huh, after grandma died, grandpa has been living alone."
隨著食品安全的問題越來越嚴重，奶奶也更常去有機超市買菜。;嚴重;As the problem of food safety becoming more and more serious, grandma more frequently buys her groceries in organic supermarket.
何雅婷：「我爸爸擔心爺爺，所以領養了一隻狗陪他。」;擔心&隻;Hé Yǎtíng: "My father is worried about grandpa, so he adopted a dog to keep him company."
羅珊蒂：「幸虧有這隻可愛的狗，要不然就太孤單了。」;可愛&孤單;Luó Shāndì: "Fortunately, he has this cute dog, otherwise he would be too lonely."
這麼可愛的狗，難怪人人見了都笑著摸摸牠。;難怪&牠;Such a cute dog, no wonder everyone who have met the dog always laughs and pets it.
何雅婷：「我爺爺很愛牠，把牠當成家人一樣，... 」;當成;Hé Yǎtíng: "My grandpa really loves it, and considers him part of the family, ..."
他常常把打掃房間當成一種運動，所以家裡總是乾乾淨淨的。;打掃&總是&乾淨;He frequently considers cleaning house as a form of exercise, therefore his house is always sparkling clean.
別再讓狗去公園玩了，牠總是玩的髒髒的，把家裡都弄髒了。;弄髒;Please don't ever let the dog play in the park, they are always dirty after playing around and make the house really dirty.
孩子做錯了事或是成績不理想，父母打孩子是好的方法嗎？;成績;Is it a good parenting practice to hit their children if the child has made a mistake or doesn't achieve the ideal grade?
羅珊蒂：「很多研究報告都說，人緊張的時候，摸摸狗會減輕壓力。」;緊張&減輕&壓力;Luó Shāndì: "Many research says that, petting a dog could lighten people's stress when they are nervous"
何雅婷：「... 他們 ... 養不起孩子，就算結了婚也不生孩子，寧可養寵物。」;生&寧可&寵物;Hé Yǎtíng: "Some people ... , cannot afford to raise a child, even after they do get married, they also won't have a child. They would rather raise a pet."
何雅婷：「還有很多單身的人，... ，寵物對他們來說，比家人還親。」;單身&親;Hé Yǎtíng: "A lot of single people are closer to their pets than their families."
羅珊蒂：「可是狗可以幫你建立跟別人的關係。」;建立;Luó Shāndì: "But dogs can help you build relationships with other people."
最近天氣比較涼快，黃昏的時候到河邊公園散步，相當舒服。;涼快&黃昏&散步&相當;Recently, the weather is pleasantly cool, taking a walk on the park by the river in dusk is considerably comfortable.
「單身家庭」並不是人人都能接受，這樣的情形也給單身的人帶來很大的壓力嗎？;家庭&並&情形;Not everyone could accept 'single families', wouldn't this kind of situation brings a lot of stress to them?  
何雅婷：「他們有說不完的話，回家以後還上網繼續聊。」;上網&繼續;Hé Yǎtíng: "They have a lot of things to talk about, and would continue chatting online after they got home."
李文彥：「我覺得 ... 一家人熱熱鬧鬧地一起生活才是真正的幸福。」;熱鬧&真正&幸福;Lǐ Wényàn: "I think ... that true happiness is a family living together, full of life."